Models/README.md, before:

# Model Weights for networks

## SceneSeg
### [Link to Download Pytorch Model Weights *.pth](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1vCZMdtd8ZbSyHn1LCZrbNKMK7PQvJHxj/view?usp=sharing)
### [Link to Download Traced Pytorch Model *.pt](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1G2pKrjEGLGY1ouQdNPh11N-5LlmDI7ES/view?usp=drive_link)
### [Link to Download ONNX FP32 Weights *.onnx](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1l-dniunvYyFKvLD7k16Png3AsVTuMl9f/view?usp=drive_link)

## Scene3D
### [Link to Download Pytorch Model Weights *.pth](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1MrKhfEkR0fVJt-SdZEc0QwjwVDumPf7B/view?usp=sharing)
### [Link to Download Traced Pytorch Model *.pt](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-LO3j2YCvwxeNLzyLrnzEwalTrYUZgK0/view?usp=drive_link)
### [Link to Download ONNX FP32 Weights *.onnx](https://drive.google.com/file/d/19gMPt_1z4eujo4jm5XKuH-8eafh-wJC6/view?usp=drive_link)

## DomainSeg
### [Link to Download Pytorch Model Weights *.pth](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1sYa2ltivJZEWMsTFZXAOaHK--Ovnadu2/view?usp=drive_link)

## Description

### data_utils
Helper classes and scripts related to checking data, benchmarking, and data loading

### exports
Code to create different export formats for models

### inference
Helper classes to run model inference

### model_components
Classes defining layers and structure for individual blocks making up models, as well as overall classes for full models

### training
Helper classes for training as well as main train scripts for models

### visualizations
Examples of running inference and creating visualization output for single image and video from model predictions

Commit message:

adding links to DomainSeg .pt traced model file and .onnx ONNX model file

Models/README.md, after:

# Model Weights for networks

## SceneSeg
### [Link to Download Pytorch Model Weights *.pth](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1vCZMdtd8ZbSyHn1LCZrbNKMK7PQvJHxj/view?usp=sharing)
### [Link to Download Traced Pytorch Model *.pt](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1G2pKrjEGLGY1ouQdNPh11N-5LlmDI7ES/view?usp=drive_link)
### [Link to Download ONNX FP32 Weights *.onnx](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1l-dniunvYyFKvLD7k16Png3AsVTuMl9f/view?usp=drive_link)

## Scene3D
### [Link to Download Pytorch Model Weights *.pth](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1MrKhfEkR0fVJt-SdZEc0QwjwVDumPf7B/view?usp=sharing)
### [Link to Download Traced Pytorch Model *.pt](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-LO3j2YCvwxeNLzyLrnzEwalTrYUZgK0/view?usp=drive_link)
### [Link to Download ONNX FP32 Weights *.onnx](https://drive.google.com/file/d/19gMPt_1z4eujo4jm5XKuH-8eafh-wJC6/view?usp=drive_link)

## DomainSeg
### [Link to Download Pytorch Model Weights *.pth](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1sYa2ltivJZEWMsTFZXAOaHK--Ovnadu2/view?usp=drive_link)
### [Link to Download Traced Pytorch Model *.pt](https://drive.google.com/file/d/12fLHpx3IZDglRJaDZT9kMhsV-f6ZTyks/view?usp=drive_link)
### [Link to Download ONNX FP32 Weights *.onnx](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1zCworKw4aQ9_hDBkHfj1-sXitAAebl5Y/view?usp=drive_link)

## Description

### data_utils
Helper classes and scripts related to checking data, benchmarking, and data loading

### exports
Code to create different export formats for models

### inference
Helper classes to run model inference

### model_components
Classes defining layers and structure for individual blocks making up models, as well as overall classes for full models

### training
Helper classes for training as well as main train scripts for models

### visualizations
Examples of running inference and creating visualization output for single image and video from model predictions
